---
title: "Daily Blog: Routines"
permalink: "/routines"
description: "Let's talk about routines. Today I will be sharing the routines I try to observe, and the benefits I find when I actually do them."
keywords: ""
image: "batanes-boat"
image-attrib: "A very shaky boat-ride in Batanes, Philippines"
---
Today I will be sharing the routines I *try* to observe, and the benefits I find when I actually do them.

Spoiler Alert: I am not talking about skin-care routines, so sorry if that's what you are looking for.<!--more-->

These are more like productivity-booster routines.

The same routines I attempt each day to give myself some much needed push to get through work and life. :)

## Why We Need Routines

With all the busyness of life, it could be easy to get caught up and lose sight of things that matter.

Worse, if you don't get on top of life soon, you may just find things you care for slowly slipping through the cracks.

Most of the time, even just going through the day feels like sailing on a boat with strong waves crashing all around you.

Because, we all know, there are things we *want* to do, and then there are things that we *need* to do.

And sadly, not everything can fit the day.

But, worry not, young boys and girls.

It is never too late to start thinking about **routines**.

Routines will be the anchor upon which we will establish our daily lives.

If you have some routines established, you will give yourself some "quick wins" that will help give you the daily boost to *get the ball rolling*.

And once you get that ball rolling, that is when you can expect to get some productivity kill streaks.

Now, without further ado, let's get onto some of the routines I try to observe.

## My Morning Routine

Each morning, I attempt to start my day preparing for what's ahead.

I do this by practicing the following activities.

1. **Gratitude** - For the first routine, I practice gratitude. I write down three things I am most thankful for in the moment. They could be anything from the comfy pajamas I slept in to the sun rise I just witnessed. This activity sets my mind to focus on the good things, instead of the things I can complain about.
2. **Affirmations** - I keep a note containing around 30 statements that I read to myself regularly. These are affirmations that help me battle anxiety. For example, I tell myself that "My life is just beginning." Or that "Everything that is happening now is happening for my ultimate good."
3. **Meditation** - I use an app to help me go through a few minutes of guided meditation. This activity lets me zoom out and observe my body, thoughts and emotions. To clear my mind and start the day with a clear mind.
4. **Exercise** - I try not to forget the physical body. I sit in front of the computer all day for work (and play) so if I don't intentionally move around, I would not really get much other chance to do so. I do simple exercises such as stretching, push ups, squats, jumping jacks, and lifting small dumbells at home. But to be honest, among the activities, this is the hardest for me to be consistent in. :)
5. **News** - I think reading the news is the best way to get in touch with the world today. Just be very careful and check the sources you are reading because Fake News and Propaganda is all around the web.
6. **Plan** - When I get my heart warmed with gratitude and affirmations, my mind cleared with meditation, my blood pumped up with exercise, and my awareness updated by reading the news... that's when I feel most confident to plan the day. I go through the existing tasks, emails/messages, and plans, then prioritize the ones I can do today. I acknowledge the fact that the day will be limited, and so I plan accordingly.

So that's the daily morning routine I try to do consistently first thing each day.

In future blogs, I will share more details and how I change the activities on weekends to reflect on the past week and plan for the coming one.

## Now, You Can Start Simple

The activities I listed above are a product of several researching, planning, and refining.

I started with just the Affirmations activity, during a phase that I experienced great anxiety.

Then I added Meditations, when I read about the benefits online.

Gratitude was added when I noticed people keep posting rants and complaints in social media, and I noticed that I was becoming the same.

It just kind of evolved for me.

What I suggest you do, is to start simple.

What positive change do you want to happen in your life and what activity do you think can help you get there?

Just remember, we are most productive when we feel positive about ourselves.

And observing healthy routines consistently can most definitely help you get the motivational boost you need to face the rest of your day --your *life* even. :)
