---
published: true
image: hello-world
permalink: /weekly-1
category: personal
description: First post in hopefully a series of weekly short blogs.
---
As the week starts, I try to do things right by sticking to my productivity system. One other new thing this week is consumption of email subscriptions for news which inspires me to start writing again. Maybe I'll start with a weekly short blog. Surprisingly this is also in my scheduled tasks for the day. Sometimes capturing my ideas as they come reveal how my subconscious also has "plans".<!--more-->

I think about the gospel--maybe because I have also been reading more Scripture and commentaries, with which by the way, I find Ligonier ministries (by RC Sproul et. al) so helpful. First, I think about the wonders of Christ's work on the cross. The Bible says he died for us when we were still unbelieving sinners (a picture of how he expects us to love even our enemies as well). What assurance this brings to us: that the salvation God offers doesn't depend on our works.

Yet still doubt sometimes find its way into my mind, that this has become a constant prayer for me: that God help me overcome my unbelief.

As I start the work week, I pray for wisdom and discernment. Last week a professing brother in Christ messaged me to ask for financial help. It was a difficult instance for me because the said bother has a history of not paying his debt, and though I don't really intend to lend money it got me thinking whether I should really send help. In the end, I still gave him money because I realized that I don't want his history to somehow seal his fate of not getting help, and if he is somehow taking advantage of me I lay it onto God to deal with him. I wanted to focus on obeying the Scripture's word: to never look away when I have the resource to help a fellow believer. I don't regret the decision to help and pray that God will help him, and that he sees that ultimately it is God who sends help.

I also pray for focus. My jobs are relatively less intense this week, but experience has shown me that this kind of "peace" doesn't last long. I need to get as much tasks out of the way so that when the busy days ambush me I wouldn't be thrown off.

The lockdown in our city due to the Pandemic has begun as well. I stocked up on supplies that I estimate could last for at least two weeks. Though my eating habits and sleeping habits still need improvement. As I write this (12:26 PM) I haven't had anything yet but coffee.

I still slept late last night due to Monday anxieties, which I need to address sooner. In my mind, I know that I need to fully trust God… and this should translate to being able to let go and fully rest on Sunday nights. It feels like taking a dive and closing my eyes and waking up on the swimming pool full of tasks for the week. I need to learn to trust God and let go.